Changing rule severity or other metadata, componentized (#1764)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/kb/rules/changing-rule-severity-and-other-metadata.md

---
description: Change rule severity and other metadata by forking rules
tags:
  - Rules
  - Semgrep Code
  - Semgrep Secrets
append_help_link: true
---
import ForkExistingRule from '/src/components/reference/_fork_existing_rule.md'

# Change rule severity and other metadata by forking rules

To alter the severity or other metadata of a Semgrep rule, it must be forked and then updated. Forking means to copy or duplicate the rule, thereby creating your own custom version of it. Once this custom version is created, it can then be modified as needed.

:::note
Only Semgrep Code and Secrets rules can be forked.
:::

## Fork a rule

<ForkExistingRule />

## Changing the severity

Once you have forked the rule, you can change the [severity or other metadata](/docs/writing-rules/rule-syntax#required) to your liking. 

Then, save this custom version of the rule to your organization's rules, making it available to use within your policy as defined in Semgrep AppSec Platform.

![Save a rule in the Editor](/img/kb/save_rule_editor.png)

> By default, saving the rule also includes it in the Semgrep Registry, with visibility limited to your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, saving the rule also enables you to search for it in the [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/r), with visibility limited to your organization.
```
So - in other parts of the Semgrep ecosystem/product, we say stuff like **Contribute to Registry** or that the registry is the source of community rules. If we say "includes it in the Registry" that may imply that the rule is uploaded to the semgrep-rules repo (which users are aware of and fork). I am aware that the Semgrep Registry is more than community rules, but it is a bit tricky because we have to not contradict wording elsewhere.

Just to sidestep that bit, I reworded your text a little.
